---
date: 2023-01-30T20:00
---

# 1.9.2

<!-- truncate -->

> This is the next planned release for ConnXio and is currently under development. This notice will be removed when the features are available in production

## :rocket: New Features

- `Table storage adapter`
  - added new table adapter type to Azure Storage adapter
- `Environment variables`
  - many of you have requested environment variables to enable switching between environments without having to hold the variables outside CX. This new functionality adds a new menu option called Environment Variables.

## :bug: Bug Fix

- Nothing yet ;)

## :nail_care: Polish

- `Added process lock to inbound adapters`
  - added new option for locking on process for inbound adapters with locking functionality. This affects Azure Storage, Rest and (S)ftp adapters.
- `Added filepath to metadata for (S)FTP`
  - The filepath field contains the full path including the filename to the file

### :sparkles: Under Development

> This section details customer facing tasks we are currently working on. These are primarily long running tasks which will not be coming in the next release but are planned for future releases and is mostly meant as a way to keep track of what is currently high priority. There are no guarantee that the functionality ever reaches production.

- `New Inbound engine`
  - Work has started on a totally new architecture for the Inbound CX Engine which handles all inbound adapters. This new architecture will add performance, continuous fetch from Queues and cron expressions for polling adapters.
  - The new architecture uses Microsoft Orleans and adds both separation and scaling beyond what was possible in the old engine.
  - The IP's for CX will change when the new engine is deployed. We will be sending e-mails and warning way in advance for all affected customers.
- `New Mapping Engine`
  - Mapping is being moved into a new engine. This will add better security and lets us manage mappings in a more streamlined way.
- `New queue handling between engines`
  - All engines including Transformation, Splitting, Logging and Batching are being upgraded to .net 6 and are being rewritten to use a new mode of transport between engines.
  - This enabled better performance and a more robust engine.