# Event Streams

The Connxio team has developed new functionality based around the concept of events in integration scenarios. We call it Event Streams. Basically Event Streams let you designate an inbound adapter as an origin point for a stream of events which can then be subscribed to by an infinite number of consumer integrations. As such, Event Streams decouple the ingestion of events from the integration logic.

The first version of Event STreams will allow customers to define external event sources and filter events based on CxMal. In future versions of the framework we will also implement Managed Event Streams that let customers define an ingestion integration which stores events directly in Connxio before emitting them to listeners. In both cases the Event Stream concept is extensive, but the functionality is easy to use and quite intuitive when properly understood.

## Configuring an Event Stream

To create an Event Stream you configure your inbound adapter as normal by choosing an adapter and adding all the required fields. When the adapter is done you left click the adapter box and select *Convert to event stream* like shown here:

<div style={{maxWidth: '400px'}}>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="data pickup interval"
    sources={{
      light: useBaseUrl('/img/docs/eventstreams/es-left-click-light.jpg'),
      dark: useBaseUrl('/img/docs/eventstreams/es-left-click-dark.jpg#dark-only'),
    }}
  />
</div>

The UI will then remove all the other configurable boxes for transformations and sub-integrations. This is how you know the adapter is properly converted to an Event Stream. You may now save the Event Stream source by clicking the Save or Create button as usual.

## Configuring an Event Stream consumer

An Event Stream source is not of any value until you have a consumer that processes the events generated by it. To create a consumer you open an already existing integration or create a new one. In the inbound *Trigger* box you click on the `Add Trigger` button and select *Event Stream* like this:

<div style={{maxWidth: '400px'}}>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="data pickup interval"
    sources={{
      light: useBaseUrl('/img/docs/eventstreams/es-trigger-light.jpg'),
      dark: useBaseUrl('/img/docs/eventstreams/es-trigger-dark.jpg#dark-only'),
    }}
  />
</div>

When the Event Stream inbound trigger is selected you will be met with the following configuration settings for the consumer:

<div style={{maxWidth: '400px'}}>
  <ThemedImage
    alt="data pickup interval"
    sources={{
      light: useBaseUrl('/img/docs/eventstreams/es-consumer-light.jpg'),
      dark: useBaseUrl('/img/docs/eventstreams/es-consumer-dark.jpg#dark-only'),
    }}
  />
</div>

The following properties are used to configure the consumer:

- **Integration**: The event stream source that emits the events this consumer should process.
- **Filters**: A list of inclusive filters in the CxMal boolean style. All CxMal functionality is available here like file-access and metadata.

When all the properties you need are set you can keep developing the integration like normal. You may create as many consumers as you want, and since Connxio handles the event generation you wont tax the source beyond the first retrieval.
